Your browser has javascript turned off or blocked. This will lead to some
parts of our website to not work properly or at all. Turn on javascript for
best performance.

The browser you are using is not supported by this website. All versions of
Internet Explorer are no longer supported, either by us or Microsoft (read
more here: <https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/windows/end-of-ie-
support>).

Please use a modern browser to fully experience our website, such as the
newest versions of Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari etc.

#  Sustainability

One of the most sustainable universities in the world

[ __På svenska](https://www.lu.se/om-universitetet/vision-mal-och-
strategier/hallbarhet)

![Children on meadow in Vintrie. Photo: Patrik
Hekkala.](/sites/www.lunduniversity.lu.se/files/styles/lu_original_ratio_full_width_desktop/public/2022-06/vintrie_1_3000x1500.jpg.webp?itok=lCx_AJT8)

Ranked 8th in the world in the QS Sustainability Rankings 2024, Lund
University is a global leader in sustainability in higher education. This
encourages us to continue leading the way towards a sustainable society in our
research, education and everyday life.

##  Lund University climbs in global ranking, wins sustainability award

14 June 2024 | Lund University has risen to 75th place in the prestigious QS annual ranking. In addition, the University has been awarded the QS Sustainability Champions Award.

[Read the full news article](/article/lund-university-climbs-global-ranking-
wins-sustainability-award)

Sustainability is a complex area that requires interdisciplinary research,
education and external engagement. The University offers a range of courses
and programmes, and is part of networks and collaborations linked to the
sustainability goals outlined in the 2030 Agenda.

[Lund University ranks in top 10 in global sustainability ranking (5 December
2023)](/article/lund-university-ranks-top-10-global-sustainability-ranking)

[Global goals for sustainable development –
globalgoals.org](https://www.globalgoals.org/)

## Education

Our courses and programmes offer students diverse perspectives on sustainable
development across a range of disciplines. From Bachelor's to Master's and
doctoral levels, as well as through professional development, students gain a
deep understanding of sustainability. This knowledge becomes the foundation of
their careers, enabling them to pioneer solutions for a sustainable future.

We offer the following programmes and courses in the area of sustainability:

##  All sustainability-related education at Bachelor's and Master's level ____

While sustainability is embedded in the curriculum of all our courses, many of
our courses and degree programmes have a more specific focus. The following
page provides an overview of courses and degree programmes related to
environmental or social sustainability.

[Sustainability education at Lund University](/about-university/university-
glance/mission-vision-and-values/sustainability/sustainability-education-lund-
university)

###  International Master's programmes in environmental sustainability ____

We offer three international Master's programmes in the field of environment
and sustainability. There are also several Master's programmes in other
subject areas with a strong sustainability focus.

[Master's programmes in environment and sustainability](/admissions/bachelors-
and-masters-studies/subject-areas/environment-and-sustainability)

Bachelor's programmes in this field are currently only available in Swedish.

##  MOOCs ____

We offer several specialised MOOCs in the field of sustainability.

[MOOCs](/admissions/distance-learning/moocs)

###  Capacity building programmes (professional education) ____

Lund University Commissioned Education currently offers the following courses
in and related to sustainable development:

[Innovation, transformation and resilience for sustainable
development](/admissions/professional-education/capacity-building-
programmes/innovation-transformation-and-resilience-sustainable-development)

[Innovation in the Public Sector](/admissions/professional-education/capacity-
building-programmes/innovation-public-sector)

###  Postgraduate schools ____

We have four postgraduate schools with a focus on sustainability.

[Postgraduate schools](/research-and-innovation/postgraduate-research-schools)

## Research

We are constantly generating new scientific knowledge that challenges and
deepens our understanding of sustainable development. Interdisciplinary,
problem-oriented and curiosity-driven research is needed to strengthen the
necessary knowledge base and solve current and future sustainability
challenges.

[Sustainable planet – research that addresses environmental and sustainability
challenges](/research-and-innovation/research-excellence-areas/sustainable-
planet)

[Discover how our research contributes to the UN Sustainable Development Goals
2030](https://www.lunduniversity.lu.se/research-and-innovation/find-research-
and-researchers/#SDG)

## Cross-border external engagement

Promoting sustainable development is an explicit goal in our interactions with
businesses, the public sector and other organisations. We are therefore
actively working to create new collective meeting places and to strengthen
existing initiatives between academia and society in this field.

Interested in collaborating with us or finding out more about our approach to
sustainability? Contact our Sustainability Forum, which is responsible for
coordinating sustainability issues at the University, via contact [at]
sustainability [dot] lu [dot] se (contact[at]sustainability[dot]lu[dot]se).

## Sustainability at the University

##  Contact information

**Per Mickwitz**  
Pro vice-chancellor for research, sustainability and campus development  
per [dot] mickwitz [at] rektor [dot] lu [dot] se
(per[dot]mickwitz[at]rektor[dot]lu[dot]se)  
Telephone: [+46 (0)46 222 38 80](tel:+46462223880)

**Claes Nilén**  
Environmental manager  
claes [dot] nilen [at] bygg [dot] lu [dot] se
(claes[dot]nilen[at]bygg[dot]lu[dot]se)  
Telephone: [+46 (0)46 222 41 59](tel:+46462224159)

**Ann Åkerman**  
Coordinator at Lund University Sustainability Forum  
ann [dot] akerman [at] lucsus [dot] lu [dot] se
(ann[dot]akerman[at]lucsus[dot]lu[dot]se)  
Telephone: [+46 (0)46 222 80 81](tel:+46462228081)

* * *

**Sustainability Forum**  
contact@sustainability [at] lu [dot] se
(contact[at]sustainability[at]lu[dot]se)

  * [Subscribe to our newsletter](https://app.bwz.se/lundsuniversitet/cec/b/v?subscribeto=6&ucrc=B1FD8AB9)
  * [Sustainability Forum on Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/sustainabilityforum/)
  * [Sustainability Forum on X (formerly Twitter)](https://twitter.com/sustforum_Lu)

We want to make it easy for our students and staff to make sustainable choices
during their time here. That is why we strive to continuously develop the way
we work with social, economic and environmental sustainability in our daily
lives.

[Sustainable student life](/current-students/get-involved-student-
life/sustainable-student-life)

We also work continuously and systematically according to policies and plans
to provide a good, safe and accessible place to work and study. At the same
time, we strive to be a resource-efficient organisation with minimal impact on
the climate and the environment.

[Lund University's Strategy for Sustainable Development (PDF 265 kB, new
tab)](/sites/www.lunduniversity.lu.se/files/2024-03/strategy-sustainable-
development-lund-university-2019-2026.pdf)

[Sustainability Plan for Lund University 2020–2026 (PDF 3.8 MB, new
tab)](/sites/www.lunduniversity.lu.se/files/2024-03/sustainability-plan-lund-
university-2020-2026.pdf)

## [ Upcoming events __](https://www.lu.se/calendar?category=7958)

Lectures, stand-up comedy and more on sustainability in the events calendar at
lu.se (in Swedish – events in English and/or Swedish)

* * *

## Latest news in sustainability

![Pink flowers in front of the Main University Building. Photo: Kennet
Ruona.](/sites/www.lunduniversity.lu.se/files/styles/lu_article_small_desktop/public/2024-05/main-
uni-building-pink-flowers-top.jpg.webp?itok=NHj7tNe0)

### [ Lund University climbs in global ranking, wins sustainability award
__](/article/lund-university-climbs-global-ranking-wins-sustainability-award)

Lund University has risen to 75th place in the prestigious QS annual ranking.
This is an improvement of ten spots on the previous year, placing Lund as the
top ranked comprehensive...

![Conference participants in group
photo](/sites/www.lunduniversity.lu.se/files/styles/lu_article_small_desktop/public/2024-05/Kritzberg%20luse%20final.jpg.webp.jpeg.webp?itok=zUya3yI5)

### [ Conferences make scientists climate transgressors
__](/article/conferences-make-scientists-climate-transgressors)

Climate researchers often emphasise the fact that reducing carbon emissions is
in everyone’s best interest, and should involve all of us. But how good are
they at minimising their ...

![Lund researchers Thomas Pugh and Raimund Muscheler have been awarded the ERC
Advanced Grant. Photo: Private/Kenneth
Ruona](/sites/www.lunduniversity.lu.se/files/styles/lu_article_small_desktop/public/2024-04/thomas-
raimund-958px.jpg.webp?itok=g78F_dat)

### [ Two Lund researchers receive prestigious EU grant __](/article/two-lund-
researchers-receive-prestigious-eu-grant)

Quaternary geologist Raimund Muscheler and physical geographer Thomas Pugh
have been awarded the ERC Advanced Grant by the European Research Council.
They will receive EUR 2.5 mill...

[ More news about Sustainability __](/category/sustainability)

Page manager: editors [at] kommunikation [dot] lu [dot] se | 12 Aug 2024 

__ Back to top

  *[MOOCs]: Massive Open Online Courses


